RAMA KRISHNAN
THEY SAY YOU ARE GONE.
WE DON'T BELIEVE IT.
YOU DON'T BELIEVE IT EITHER.
LOVE IS GOD
LOVE IS FULFILLMENT
LOVE IS HIDDEN
LOVE IS THE ULTIMATE TRUTH
What’s going on, brother?
You still haven't gone home,
and now you're sleeping here!
Do you want to come
and sleep with me in the shed?
I'll even give you
the coconut leafstalk to eat.
You can ask him yourself.
When he first came here,
he was just a baby!
He used to barely reach your shoulder.
Now when you stand,
you're only as tall as his shoulder.
I've fed him everything
to make him this tall and healthy.
What do you say, baby?
My fat baby!
Fat baby!
Grandpa, take him and go. It's late.
He must be hungry.
Go, my dear.
Come on, let’s go!
Come on…
-Grandpa.
-Come.
We are leaving town permanently.
We lost the house!
Hey! Mozhi! Mozhi!
Hey!
Why is he walking away
without answering?
Hey, have this. Have this.
I'm leaving! I'm leaving!
As a mere skeleton, I'm leaving!
Toward the agonizing path, I leave!
Where my childhood's free spirit
Danced in eternal joy!
From my hometown, I stand separated!
From the home
My ancestors built and protected
I stand separated!
I'm leaving! I'm leaving!
As a mere skeleton, I'm leaving!
Toward the agonizing path
I leave!
Where the hell have you been?
Have you blabbed anything to anyone?
Sir, why are you
leaving at this hour
without even informing me?
-Uncle, when did you get here?
-I came a while ago.
Where are you coming from?
The wealth has been divided
and the house has been written off.
When it's no longer ours… no point…
Why should you leave our native then?
-You can rent…
-You think, I…
Our three generations have lived
in this house and town.
Forget it, certain things cannot
be understood by words.
Not that I don't understand, sir.
But leaving this house is a
bigger blow for him than you.
Just take care of him, sir.
Mozhi,
I am going to take Bhuvana
to Needamangalam.
Why?
Can't stay here, right?
I've finalized a school there,
based on your dad's recommendation.
O' time are you being fair?
Are my eyes witnessing a mirage?
What could be the sin that I committed?
A life of deceit surrounds me!
A nurturing mother's lap
Torn apart by the greed of kith and kin
All the tomorrows
Stand shattered!
A kite that danced
Along with the thread!
Now I am lost with a broken thread!
Like an uprooted blooming tree
I've become a tragic sight!
Like a river that
Runs deep in the forest
I am lost!
Like a bird that ceases
To live in its own nest
A refugee, I become!
I'm leaving! I'm leaving!
As a mere skeleton, I'm leaving!
Towards the agonizing path
I leave!
What will I say?
How will I comfort myself?
This fatal curse!
How will I change it?
The conspiracy's path
That's filled with darkness
How will I shine the light?
I leave today!
But when will I be back?
When will I return
To my own doorway?
To rescue me back home
When will I find an honest soul?
Without the people of my land
Will I lead a life?
I am like a lonely bubble
That never flows with the water!
You lock it.
Give it to them, brother.
Dirty rogues!
I curse them from the bottom of my heart!
-They won't live well!
-Sokkalingam!
We have only lost our wealth.
All of you are standing by us.
Forget it. We'll find a way.
What you say might come true!
No matter what,
they are my siblings.
That's the curse of the girl child, they
are mere puppets dancing to others' tunes!
How can we curse them?
Brother, you are an educated man.
I can't be as mature as you.
Forget about me!
Forget about you!
What about him?
This house was his world…
This town was his everything!
Now all of a sudden,
what will happen to my child?
Hey…
Why, brother?
-Keep it.
-I have money.
For the bus fare
and also get her something.
Are you upset with me
because we lost the house?
No, brother.
If you're here, I'll make excuses
and come to see you once a week.
I wonder if I can do that now.
That's the only thing
I am feeling bad about, brother.
Bhuvana.
My dear…
Shall I leave now?
No, even I will come with you.
Your brother is going to Madras, darling.
I will also come.
Tomorrow you have to go to school,
so go with Dad.
When I come back,
I will get you lots of chocolates
and clothes and come to visit you, okay?
I don't want chocolates.
I will also come with you.
There will be a school in Madras,
you and I can go
on the cycle together.
Come, my darling.
-Come.
-Go to Daddy.
-Bhuvana…
-I want to go to my brother…
-Come to me.
-I want to go to my brother.
-Stop crying, baby…
Okay, dear.
Arul, you come in the van
with all the things.
Your mother, brother
and I will come by bus.
-Have you loaded everything?
-Yes, sir.
-Just take another look around the house.
-Okay, sir.
We can't come back here again.
-Stop the vehicle if you need anything.
-Do you want water or anything else?
-Brother.
Sir, we forgot to load your son's cycle.
Cycle?
Arul, do you need it?
Will you ride it?
-No, Dad.
-Wait.
Give it to someone who needs it.
No, not needed, let it be.
Brother,
you take this or give it away to someone.
Shall we leave?
-Yes, you guys get started.
-Okay.
K. SELVI
Go well!
Don't lose heart!
Don't lose heart, son!
For you, we'll wait!
Go well and surely return!
Go well!
Don't refrain from coming back, son!
For you, we'll wait!
Go well and surely return!
THANJAVUR BORDER ENDS
I am going out of town for a day.
I'll go today
and come back tomorrow morning.
She will feed you guys
in the evening, okay?
Not that I want to go,
but I have to go!
It's just for a day.
I will be back tomorrow morning.
Okay?
Hey!
It's getting late, aren't you leaving?
I was wondering if I should go or not.
It's okay if my husband doesn't go.
I'll be happy that he's taken a day off.
I will cook his favorites for all
three meals and sit admiring him!
But you're Bhuvana's brother,
you have to go.
For twenty years, you haven't
let anyone connect with you,
now these are the only set of people,
who we can call family.
How can you think twice
about going to their function?
It's not an issue for you, Arul.
Even after all this,
you'll stay the same…
Alone
and angry.
There is nothing wrong with that,
but you have a daughter,
hope you remember that.
She won't have any aunts,
uncles, and cousins in the future.
It will be just us,
does that work for you?
There are dogs, cats, parrots,
and a lot of other things, right?
Are you scared to go back
to your native place, Arul?
I know how much you love
that town and that house.
Are you scared you will become
emotional and break down if you go there?
Shall I hand-hold you carefully
and take you there?
I will go.
Hey, Valli! Bye!
Hey! Come here.
What?
Don't look so grumpy
before going to our hometown.
Don't get into any arguments
with anyone there.
Just go and come back
without creating a scene.
Oxygen molecule… double covalent bond.
Make a note of everything and we will be…
Arul.
You can catch the train in the afternoon.
Why are you leaving now?
The reception's in the evening.
What will you even do
there after going now?
I just thought I would
take a look around our town.
I am in two minds whether to go or not.
No, no, you go and come.
What will you say, if they
ask you why I didn't come?
-Shall I say you have a fever?
-Hey!
-Shall I say grandmother died?
-Hey! Stop fooling around.
No one will ask
why you didn't come…
If they do, I will manage, Dad!
Why are you not wearing your watch?
I have my mobile.
You're going to a wedding,
shouldn't you look smart?
Is this your idea of "smart"?
Wear it.
-Wear it properly.
-I'll do it.
Careful.
-Go safely.
-Okay, bye.
Call me after you reach.
THANJAVUR CORPORATION
BUS DEPOT
OUR LADY OF LOURDES
Stop right here.
Thanks.
Brother, there is someone at the gate,
check who it is.
It's 203.
Oh, sorry.
Thanks.
I haven't started yet.
I am still in Thanjavur.
GODDESS ANBIRPIRIYAL TEMPLE
Still?
It's getting late, leave soon.
Why?
To go there early and bump
into some unwanted faces?
These are the people I never
wanted to see again in my life.
I only came for Bhuvana's sake.
I will only meet her and leave.
Hey!
Why are you talking like this?
Then what?
She's to be blamed for it all.
To top it off, she texted me
while I was on my way…
"I am not sure if you're
really coming or not,
I'll wait at the reception,
if you don't turn up,
I won't get married to him."
She's literally threatening me.
She's quite capable of doing it.
After all, she's your sister.
Fine! What all have you done
since you reached?
Nothing much.
I booked a room at
the Philomina Lodge and slept.
I am probably the first person to
stay at a lodge in his own hometown.
Okay.
Where are you right now?
I've come to the temple.
This alone has remained the same.
When he first came here,
he was a baby!
He used to just reach your shoulder.
Now when you stand,
you're only as tall as his shoulder.
Arul, are you there?
Where did you go?
Nothing.
Honestly, even though I came
because I had no choice,
it feels so good to see my hometown
after so many years.
Then why don't you stay
for two days and come?
But, our house owner was saying
he's planning to sell this house,
so by then we will have to look
for another house.
We should like the new house.
They need to permit us
to keep the pets.
The rent should be affordable.
It should be within a three-kilometer
radius of our daughter's school.
We'll have to change all
the address proof documents.
Just thinking about all this is…
Oh, God!
We will cross the bridge
when we get to it.
Don't start whining now…
and add to the existing stress.
He said that he was just thinking
about selling the house.
We will deal with it when he sells it.
I really don't know.
Our destiny with houses
has always been a disaster.
What if he suddenly comes in the middle
of the night and asks us to vacate?
That's why I've been thinking
whether to look for another house or…
I haven't even told you yet.
What is it?
Whether we should
just buy this house…
Hey!
Are you really saying this?
What is there to be real
or not about this? I am just thinking.
Hey! That's superb!
Arul!
You're going to buy me a house, Arul?
Hey! Hang on!
That's why I don't tell you anything.
Well, you have told me now. Relax!
It makes me so happy to hear this.
Oh, God!
I wanted to tell you this in person,
but I've blabbered it all over the phone.
The minute we buy the house,
I am going to bore nails
into all the walls.
Hema!
He didn't even allow us to hang
two extra wedding photographs!
That stingy owner!
Always worried about
the walls developing cracks,
water leakage, and whatnot.
Just wait!
Hereafter, I will make the rules!
Oh, my! Hema!
Why don't you fully listen
to what I have to say?
I won't listen.
Why are you getting
excited beforehand?
That's how I will get excited.
What will you do?
Look,
now don't imagine
something and then
blame it on me.
I just wanted to tell you that I am
only thinking about us buying this house.
That's all.
Okay?
Mr. Arulmozhivarman,
son of Arivudai Nambi,
I know you too well. Even your
parents won't know you that well.
If you say that you're thinking about it,
that means you have decided on it.
If you're asking for an opinion,
it simply means you're cross-checking.
Okay, believe that.
Actually, you…
Amidst your blabbering,
I forgot what I wanted to tell you.
THANJAVUR
SALIYAMANGALAM
NEEDAMANGALAM
If anyone going to
Kombankudusai, Gnanam Nagar,
and Mariamman Kovil is seated,
please get down.
The next stop is at Saliyamangalam.
GOVERNMENT TRANSPORT CORPORATION
KUMBAKONAM
Sir, one ticket to Needamanglam.
Why don't you have a 2000 rupee note?
The bus has just started, how
can you give me a 500 rupee note?
Sorry, I had no clue. I have change.
Are you an outsider?
No, I am from Thanjavur.
It's been many years
since I left for Madras.
No wonder you don't
seem new to the town,
you just seem new to the bus.
I said it because you're happily seated
in the conductor's seat.
Oh! Sorry!
-I forgot. I thought till you come…
-Sit…
I still have more tickets to sell.
If someone gets down at the next stop,
you can shift there.
One ticket for Ayyampettai.
Sir, a minute.
I haven't been to Needamangalam,
so I have no clue.
Let me know when the stop comes.
Ticket… ticket…
-I'll tell you when it comes.
-Okay.
THANJAVUR
How many more stops to Needamangalam?
A few more to go.
Sit.
Where in Thanjavur?
Medical College Road.
Road?
No, I was just saying that because
you might not know the place.
-Balaji Nagar.
-Where in Balaji Nagar?
Second street.
Whose house?
What is your father's name?
Arivudai Nambi.
Oh, my God!
You're Nambi sir's son?
They told me you were abroad.
No, my elder brother is,
I am in Madras.
-I was also your father's student.
-Is it?
Yes. The batch of '95.
He was my science teacher
till the eighth standard.
After that, he became the headmaster.
They made him one.
How many years has it been?
Twenty-two.
We left in '96.
You left after
the property dispute, right?
Even you seem to know.
Now you have nothing here?
Our people…
We see good people as fools
and cheat them,
but label the crooked as intelligent,
and celebrate them!
Senseless people!
Next time if he comes to Thanjavur,
let me know.
I will come and see him.
If he sees me,
no, if you tell him my name
he will surely remember.
Jagadeesan?
-Jaggu.
Will he come? Has he been visiting?
After we left, he never returned.
In order to avoid seeing
these relatives again…
Did he say that?
He didn't say that, I did.
Exactly! He's not someone
who will say that.
Why are you thinking like this?
Are you saying I am wrong?
Okay, forget it.
After complaining about your
hometown and your relatives,
how come you're here now?
It's my sister's wedding.
My aunt's daughter.
We grew up together
till a certain age.
That's why I had to come.
That's all it is.
That's what I am saying as well.
You don't have to be too friendly.
Even that's not good.
But don't think all the relatives
are like those four,
just forget about them
and focus on the rest.
There may be many others
like your sister.
Visit often.
You're right,
but I am not sure
I'll be okay with it.
Even now I came because
my sister compelled me to,
otherwise, I was not interested.
Sir, can you help me?
I haven't yet booked
my return ticket.
I don't know when the reception
will begin and end.
I will be meeting many people after
years, I am bound to get delayed.
I have to leave tonight.
So, if you tell me when the last bus
to Chennai is, I will leave accordingly.
Then, what about the wedding?
The wedding?
No way!
I am already waiting to get back.
If it were up to me,
I'd run away right now!
Since I am here now, I want
to make my presence felt,
give the gift, and leave.
My job will be done then.
How mean!
Like an idiot, I offered you my seat.
Coming back to Thanjavur
won't be feasible.
There are private buses
from Needamangalam itself.
The last bus is around 09:00
or 10:00 p.m.
Just inquire about it
when you get down.
Kovilvenni.
Wait.
Are they looking for a groom for you?
If not, let me know.
Look at you blush!
Let's go.
Where did you say
the reception was happening?
I don't remember the name, it
will be there on the invitation card.
"Cholan Wedding Hall."
Cholan Wedding Hall?
Get down here itself.
The gates won't open now.
It will take time.
Everywhere else, the gates are only shut
if there's a train passing by.
But it will be a problem if the train
halts at the Needamangalam station.
Every day, they shut the gates
for almost ten hours and torture us.
Go to that side, cross the gate,
and take a right.
You mean, left?
When you go there, ask them.
They will guide you.
It's pretty close from there.
Alright then.
Thanks.
-Convey my regards to Dad.
-Okay.
-Jaggu!
-Yes.
S. GIRIDHARAN B.E.,
P. BHUVANESHWARI M.SC, PH,D.
CHOLAN WEDDING HALL
Sister, hold this…
keep it in the bride's room.
-Keep it safely.
-Yes.
-Aishwarya, leave it on the stage.
-Okay.
Hey, Latha!
Brother!
-How are you?
-I am fine. How are you?
You're unrecognizable.
All grown up.
It's been so many
years since you saw me,
how can I still look like a teenager?
Why are you being so formal?
You're inviting trouble.
That's because
it's been so many years since we met.
It will ease out in a few minutes
as we talk.
Where are your wife and daughter?
They haven't come?
-You've come alone or what?
-Yes.
Jhanvi's exams are going on.
That's why even
she couldn't come.
I had to come.
Otherwise, you know what will happen.
I know… I know…
Poor thing, she's been waiting
for you since evening.
Okay, tell me, how are you?
I am just existing.
As you can see.
How is your husband?
He is there…
He doesn't go to work
nor does he come home.
Liquor!
Now he has started
drinking in the morning.
If we question him,
he will give some lame excuse,
which will make me laugh.
He will say he's starting a new business.
Then suddenly he will jump into politics.
Unfortunately,
nothing productive has happened.
I should have just married you.
Everyone wanted me to.
My father was worried
about how I would manage in Chennai
and refused the proposal.
But just look at me now,
I am very much here,
right in front of everyone,
but no one notices me.
Oh, God! I am such an idiot!
You are here for the wedding
and I am pouring out my sorrow to you.
Sorry, brother!
Don't get me wrong.
I am going to scold you now!
What do you mean by "your" problems?
Alright then, you're going
to stay put, right?
I left all the work I was doing
and came as soon as I saw you.
-Do you want tea or coffee?
-No…
-Cold drinks?
You will be here, right?
If you need anything call me, okay?
See you.
Who is this?
Guess who it is?
Oh, no! I spoke.
Now you'll know!
I really don't know.
Shall I give you a clue?
My hometown is Needamangalam.
Can't guess?
Okay! Second clue.
I am related to you
through your mother.
Still, you can't guess?
Okay.
This is the last clue.
In the summer holidays of '94,
I spent the entire month
at your home in Thanjavur.
Now you will definitely remember.
Voilà!
What? You still couldn't guess, brother?
At least now do you
recognize me or not?
Yes, I do. How are you?
Thank God.
I was scared you would
say you don't know me.
In that case, I would have
just walked away.
Why are you being
so formal all of a sudden?
When did you come?
Just now, about 15 minutes ago.
Is that so?
There was a black flag protest
at the collectorate's office.
I finished that and was waiting for you
at the entrance.
I was waiting to give you a surprise,
-but you escaped.
-Sorry, I didn't notice.
When did you get here?
What do you mean by when?
I stay here.
For the past three days,
the wedding preparations have piled up.
Our uncle was managing it all alone.
I couldn't just ignore that, right?
That’s why I left the shop
in my wife’s care
and stayed here.
They’ve given me a separate room.
An AC room.
Look, the moron is here.
Hello, brother!
Do you have anything hot?
Hot?
There's hot tomato juice.
Shall I give it to you?
Stop teasing.
Athaan!
The bride's brother.
His father is her dad's elder brother.
He is Ekambaram, the cook.
Catering service.
He will get angry if I don't
introduce him in English.
Did he call me a moron?
He was the cook at my wedding as well!
Well, is there anything hot?
Not for me, for Athaan!
You can eat sweets, right?
Yes, I can,
but I don't want anything.
Oh! Just wait, Athaan!
What sweet do you have?
I won't tell you.
Will you have it only if I tell you?
What a bully!
Shall I tell him
what you did at your wedding?
Let's not get started.
Just bring what you have, go.
Brother, I will get you
both sweets and savories,
eat and let me know how it is.
Later, I will come and tell you
what this guy did at his wedding.
-Go, now!
-Just wait.
Be right back!
Where is the restroom?
To piss or poop?
Because they have
Indian toilets downstairs.
If it's to poop, it will be difficult
to remove your pants and sit.
If it's to piss,
downstairs is fine.
But to poop you can go upstairs,
it's superb and will be clean.
So don't feel shy to tell me.
No, really.
-I just want to piss.
-Promise?
Is it this way?
Once you reach the washbasin,
it's just next to it.
Why do you need this?
Give it to me.
No,
I'll ask someone and go, no problem.
What if you say piss and go to poop?
Who are you trying to fool?
Just kidding, Athaan!
I didn't pee since I was waiting for you.
Even I have held it in for long.
Come, let's go together.
It's been so long.
Athaan!
I think you've forgotten.
Athaan?
Athaan!
Oh! Yes! I remember now.
You won't speak
while you're in the toilet.
Germs will get inside our mouth
and we will get a
throat infection.
You told this to us back then,
at the Kumaran Cinema Theater.
Okay, you don't need to talk,
just listen to me.
Those days we used to have a
pissing competition, do you remember?
You always won!
We were just small kids back then.
You used to piss
with such force,
and form A, B, C
on the compound wall and show off!
-Hello!
Good evening, brother!
Have you arrived?
Where are you?
Look to your left
and come straight,
you will find the kitchen.
Just drop it off there.
-I can't hear you properly.
-What?
-It's echoing.
-Echoing, is it?
Hold on.
Can you hear me now?
I can hear you very clearly now.
Were you in the toilet?
Yes, I was in the restroom.
Be careful with your phone.
-You're right.
-It will fall inside the toilet.
That's exactly how I lost a phone…
right in front of my eyes.
Before I could grab it,
-the phone fell inside.
-Is that so?
I was not concerned
about losing the phone,
just the thought of getting another
SIM card from Seena Maana…
-I was cursing myself for pissing!
-That's right!
He should've come by now.
I had asked Santhanam's son
to wait at the bus stand.
I am trying to call him,
but it's not going through.
What happened…
Uncle!
Hey!
You've arrived!
I've been looking for you everywhere.
You're coming from this side?
I had gone to the restroom.
All fine with you, uncle?
Of course, I am fine.
I have my hometown,
I have water, I have land.
And the tractor!
I have no issues,
I am doing great!
Mom, Dad?
They are all fine.
They send their regards to you.
You should have brought them.
You know about my father…
How will he come?
Okay, listen…
Those four people who you detest
are seated here
and are behaving
as if they worked hard, earned,
and achieved all this wealth.
Wearing expensive silk clothes
and showing off!
-Sold their souls for wealth!
-Forget it, uncle!
Okay… okay… okay…
Then…
Behaving like a child.
-Brother! That's my slipper.
-Yours, is it?
Wait till you remove your slipper.
Wait, I can't find my slipper,
I will call back after I find it.
My sister Valliamma's son.
Hello!
-You may continue…
-Yes.
-Brother, come sit.
-Sit, uncle.
Asoka halva!
Eat, it will be amazing.
It will be superb, eat it!
Eat! Eat!
He…
That… that… guy who was here…
-That guy…
-Try this Brinjal fritter, it's fantastic.
-Have it.
-Eat it and tell me how it is.
It's nice.
Uncle, you just kicked
his slippers, right?
Yes, yes… If he comes now,
there won't be anything left for us,
he will finish everything.
We should finish it off before he comes.
Not about that, uncle…
-Who is that…
-Any leftovers for me?
-Have you finished everything?
-Come… come…
There's lots of it. We saved it for you.
Look at all the leftovers.
Brother, have you come alone?
Haven't you brought
anyone else from home?
Good question, ask him!
He could have brought everyone.
He's come as though he's on a solitary
pilgrimage to Kashi and Rameswaram.
If they had come
and blessed the bride and groom,
it would've been lovely.
It would've been nice.
I never said no!
Will my father ever listen to me?
What's the big deal now?
Earlier, he was a teacher,
so he used to always get dressed,
top to toe in white,
and ride off on his cycle,
saying he was going to school,
and correcting the answer papers,
even on Sundays.
What now? Has he retired
and is staring at the roof
or is he going on walks?
-He can come and do that here.
-You're right.
I thought the same, just hang on.
Hello, Dad!
Yes, I reached.
Here…
Sokku uncle wanted
to say something to you,
just hold.
No, no, he's right next to me, just wait.
Ask him.
You asked me this three
times in two minutes. Here.
Ask him, uncle.
Ask him… Talk to him, uncle.
Be bold.
Brother-in-law.
-Hello, brother-in-law!
-Hello, Sokkalingam.
Are you doing fine?
I am fine.
How are you?
I am fine, brother-in-law.
Everyone's fine at home, Athaan?
How's sister Valliamma?
She's fine.
Brother-in-law, you not being here
is the only disappointment.
I couldn't make it,
I have some work here.
What is this, brother-in-law? Earlier,
because of the school, academics,
and the children you were not available.
Now you could have come.
The doctors are saying if I travel,
my blood pressure will go up.
What do you expect me to do?
Whenever you get time, come
and visit our hometown often.
Spend some time with all
of us, enjoy yourself,
and just drink the water from
our river, you will heal, brother-in-law.
Then neither salt nor
sugar will be a bother,
you will feel rejuvenated,
brother-in-law.
You're the most important
person to all of us.
If you had been at
the forefront conducting everything…
I am so sorry.
I will definitely come next time.
I will come to see you at least.
Brother-in-law, I just want
to say one thing,
are we ever
going to be born together again?
That's why, brother-in-law.
Everything you said
and asked is correct.
It's wrong,
I should've come.
No, no, no, brother-in-law.
I will come and see you.
I will come to Madras and see you.
Why take the trouble?
I will come.
Brother-in-law, it's no trouble. Nowadays,
the buses are so comfortable,
we can even sleep and come.
They are now coming
till our hometown, brother-in-law.
If I board that, I am going
to come comfortably and land there.
Okay, you come.
Now go take care
of the wedding work.
I'll talk later.
Okay, brother-in-law. Sure, sure.
Take care.
Hello.
You talk.
Just check if Dad's still on the line.
Dad,
-I'll call later.
-Okay.
Athaan… Athaan…
How many times…
This is different, Athaan.
What's happening,
you guys are using sign language?
You kicked my slipper,
so I won't tell you.
It's not fair for a warrior
to pull a fight, while one's eating.
Listen, I am no longer
a young boy and,
you've grown old, watch out.
Old, my foot!
I will break your hand
and put a cast on it, old man!
You're going to break my hand
and put it in a cast?
Do you even know how
to hold it and piss properly?
Yuck, so disgusting!
How can you talk,
so indecently in front of my Athaan?
Hey! This seems indecent to you?
Shall I tell him
what you did at your wedding?
Not necessary! Go check, it seems
a lizard has fallen into the payasam!
-It will take some time, is it okay?
-Cooker! Cooker!
Cooker, just keep quiet,
listen to me, don't! Cooker!
Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord!
-The Lord will destroy your eyes!
-Hey,
why are you shouting like this?
I am whispering into his ears,
how will he be able to hear?
I am screaming cause
he shouldn't hear…
-Oh, Lord!
-Okay, you scream all you want.
Let's see who wins, you or me.
Brother… brother…
Please listen to me, brother.
I will get you four wedding
orders where 2000 people will eat.
Please spare me.
I will tell you later
when he's not there.
Okay.
Your Honor! The judgment has
been given, let go of my hands.
Okay, both of you were talking in sign
language, tell me what that was, and go.
Nothing much, uncle,
he has to board the bus tonight.
How do you know?
Chinna uncle has given
me the responsibility.
If you permit me,
we'll see the bride and groom and
I'll get him to board the bus on time.
What is this?
Uncle, now don't start again.
You have come
after so many years,
stay with us just for tonight.
The wedding is taking place
in the morning around four to six.
Once the rituals are over
you can leave by the next bus.
Shall I book the ticket
for the 10:00 a.m. bus, Athaan?
Let's talk about this later. First,
let me go give the gift and come.
-You'll say this,
-Okay?
but you'll board the bus and leave.
Just like your father.
Fine. At least you came.
-I'll come back and speak to you.
-Okay.
Do we have time to catch the bus?
We have enough time, relax.
Thank you! Thanks!
-Auntie, please eat and go.
-Thank you.
Hello, sir.
Thank you.
Congratulations! I'll take your leave now.
-Brother…
-Bhuvana, how are you?
I can't believe it! You came!
I finally made it, right?
Look at how stunned your sister is!
You never came when so
many people called you,
but here you are for me.
Are they and you the same?
Thanks, brother…
Thanks, brother! I just knew!
This is the shirt you sent.
Is it looking nice?
-It's looking superb! Did you like it?
-A lot!
It's exactly like the ones I wear.
-My brother.
-Sir.
-How are you, sir?
-I am fine.
Sir, I hadn't seen you, but,
I know everything about you.
She would have spoken
about it 108 times at least.
I literally know it by heart.
She only talks about you
over the phone.
Sir, even our romantic
conversations are about you.
At one point,
I even thought of marrying you.
Sorry, sir!
Idiot! Did you not have
any other topic to talk about?
Sir, all the topics she
talks about are boring.
By those standards,
stories about you are far better.
That's because Bhuvana
and I grew up together.
Sir… sir… I know it all.
How you grew up together,
how you babysat her,
how you cried when
she got chicken pox.
How you plucked
gooseberries for her.
How you went to school on
the cycle together. Am I correct, sir?
I know everything, sir.
Please don't narrate it again, sir.
I'll marry your sister!
Thanks a lot for sparing me.
-Thank you, sir.
-Congratulations.
-Thank you so much, sir.
-Wish you a very happy married life.
-Oh, wow!
You know
how to do all this, is it?
Not bad!
Well, what have you got for me?
What you like, what I like, all of it.
Hey, what are you doing?
Hey, the queue is really long.
-See it later.
-No!
My brother has got this,
especially for me. Should I not see it?
What's more important than that?
There's nothing that special
in there, listen to me, Bhuvana.
Then how special is it?
Let it be anything.
You got it for me, right?
Hey. Everyone's waiting in the queue.
It's okay, wait.
You never came at anyone's behest
but you came for me, right?
Then wait.
Hold this.
Give it… give it…
Careful!
What is this? There are so many things!
-Everything is for you.
-Keep it safely.
Hold this.
Bhuvana, open it quickly.
Just tear it open.
I need the wrapper,
I will keep it safely.
Careful!
Girl, are you going
to unwrap everything?
Yes, I am going to unwrap
every single one and see it.
What are you, a tailgate?
His bodyguard?
Oh, God!
He didn't know the way
to the stage, so I accompanied him.
Look, at least I am
helpful in holding the box.
Hey, do you know
who this "sir" is?
Yes, yes, I know!
He's the one who received me first.
That I know, I am not talking about that.
This "sir" by relation,
is eligible to marry me.
What are you talking
about when he's right there?
Won't you keep quiet?
Hey! How dare you threaten me?
If I give you one punch, you
will go flying and land at home!
Beware!
Shall I wear all
of this right now?
I would love to do so.
My brother bought
all this for me,
so I'll pose with it, okay?
Wear it, darling, it's all for you.
You put it on me.
I will string the gold coin,
to the wedding chain, tomorrow.
First, the bangles.
Wow! What a fantastic start!
Baby shower?
Yes! Exactly!
-Is it hurting?
-No.
No, not that.
Take that one.
Give that, I'll put it on.
It's nice.
Now take that.
-Careful.
-You saw that!
Did I not say that
I would marry him?
-You've started again. I am leaving now.
-Sir.
-Where are you going?
-Doesn't your brother have to eat?
If we go late, they'll say all the
sweets and the special dishes are over.
Only if we go now we'll get a place,
there's a huge crowd.
Oh, that's good.
Okay, go. We'll be right behind you,
don't start eating,
wait for us.
Wipe your eyes.
You come here.
Where are you going?
Tell him not to eat, I'll be right there.
It's been so many
years since we saw him.
Uncle! Auntie!
-Hello, Arul, how are you?
-I am fine.
How are you, Arul?
So happy you came.
I thought you would
disappoint us like always.
Come on, uncle!
-Uncle,
-Tell me.
there was this person standing
next to me, do you know who that is?
Who? I didn't notice.
Hey, son! He's asking me
if I know who someone is.
Just find out who that is and tell him.
Arul, I am going up.
-You must eat and then leave, okay?
-Yes.
-Come, let's go.
-Eat and go.
Who are you asking about, Athaan?
You saw them here?
What did they look like?
Short or tall?
Fat or thin or hefty?
Dark or fair or wheatish like me?
Man or woman?
If you give the specifics,
we can catch them.
It's alright, forget it.
How can we just forget it?
There is no one I don't know in this
hall and no one who doesn't know me.
Shall I ask them
to close the main door?
I am hungry, shall we eat?
Even you?
Oh, God! Come.
Can I charge my phone somewhere?
There is just ten percent battery left.
Kanagarasu.
-Kanagarasu, come here!
-Yes?
Put it on charge
somewhere safe. Give it…
Switch it off.
Where will you charge it? Careful.
There is a police station nearby,
shall I put it there?
See, I am working
for him as his boss.
If I ask him again, I will lose
the little respect I have left.
Oh, no!
Uncle! Uncle!
Just shut up and eat.
-What happened, uncle?
-Nothing, son.
Let's eat.
I'll leave, uncle.
What nonsense!
Why should you leave?
It's uncle's order,
you can only leave after you eat.
Don't you have any idea
when to talk about what?
Athaan, look here.
There is poli, suzhiyam,
paal kozhukattai, ada prathaman payasam,
look here,
seppankizhangu roast, pudalangai usili,
aama vada with poondu podi.
And this,
I don't even know what it is.
Hey! Tell me what else is there,
only then can I eat.
Okay… okay… enough.
He is trying to change the
subject it seems, stupid fool!
I'll do what I want.
You just keep quiet.
Athaan, what's your phone number?
Why, now?
When uncle told me,
I dialed it, but I forgot to save it.
Tell me.
-It's 9841618800.
-He's done for!
Angry?
Say it slowly.
It sounded like you
didn't want to give it.
Nine, eight.
Four, one.
Six, one.
Eight, eight.
Zero, one.
I'll leave, uncle.
You're wondering why I took it, right?
I note down
all important numbers here as well.
I don't trust the phone.
If anything goes wrong,
all the numbers get deleted.
CHENNAI
ATHAAN - 9841618801
You never took my number.
My phone isn't here.
So what if your phone isn't here?
You would have a piece of paper or
a visiting card in your wallet, right?
I don't have my wallet,
it's inside my bag.
Oh, my! Athaan has a lot of money!
I can ask him when in an emergency!
I am writing it on the blue card, don't
lose it and then search for it later.
Athaan, lift your bum.
With so much cash in it, how can you
keep your wallet in the bag?
Lift it just a little.
Someone's thinking about you.
Who else, it must be sister,
she ought to be wondering whether you ate.
No sister is thinking about him,
he's thinking about himself!
For all the trouble you're causing,
he's wondering whether
to ever come here again.
What did I do?
Is that what you're thinking, Athaan?
Then I won't talk anymore.
I will never talk.
Really?
I won't talk even
if you beg me to.
Now you're talking.
This is not talking.
This is telling.
Talking and telling
are two different things.
So you won't talk?
You're swearing on the onion pachadi!
So you swear
on the food you eat, is it?
Okay!
So, lifelong…
Oh, until you finish eating
you won't talk?
I imagined something else
and was so happy.
Even I shouldn't talk?
Okay. Deal.
P. BHUVANESHWARI
S. GIRIDHARAN
Dearest women folk!
Welcome!
It's the wedding day!
The brotherhood…
-Enough! enough!
-In unison!
Come
-Eat, brother.
-And bless…
-Did you eat?
-them!
I will eat, you go and eat.
To host the feast
The sacred day has arrived!
All our kith and kin
Have started coming!
Together, wholeheartedly
The folks have gathered to bless
They have gathered!
They are good people!
On the special banana leaf
Like the heart that serves
Hunger shall be satiated to the brim!
On this delightful day!
The legacy of hospitality
That is Tamil Nadu's Pride
A predominant attribute
Will shower blessings to live!
The coconut poli be served!
The therattipal be served!
The suzhiyam soyaan be served!
The thavala adai dosai
With the aromatic pepper curry
Feast on the ideal combination
Son, he is asking for rasam.
You achieved it, my son!
Athaan's fingers are drying up, come.
How much has it charged?
You don't need to charge it
till you buy another phone.
It's my fault that I asked you!
Athaan,
if you have to say bye
to anyone, make it fast.
-I'll wait here. It's getting late.
-Not necessary, let's leave.
Are you going to leave
without telling Bhuvana?
She will be expecting you.
Didn't she say she would eat with you?
If she comes to know you're not
there at the wedding tomorrow,
she will make a big scene.
That's why I am saying
no to it. Come, let's go.
I'll keep it. You go on.
Athaan,
I'll just get my scooter.
Hello.
Sorry, had put my phone on charge,
that's why I missed your call.
Okay, okay.
Did everything go well?
Yes, all done.
We just finished
eating and came out.
We?
Who is this "we"?
Me, Sokku uncle, and another guy.
Who is this '"another guy"?
That other guy is the one
who took me to the stage
and for dinner.
What, Arul?
You have been gone for just a day
-and you have changed into a native.
-Why?
Your dialect, the way
you said he "took you"!
Did I really sound like that?
He only accompanied me.
-If I ask you to do something, will you?
-What?
Why are you desperate
to get back home?
You can stay another day
and come, isn't it?
Why?
I don't know if you're able to notice it,
but your tone
itself has changed,
you sound happy.
That's why.
I don't want to…
Don't confuse me.
I have to leave now.
We are just about to leave.
That's exactly what I am saying.
Give it here.
Listen, if you don't start tonight
and reach here,
you won't be allowed to conduct
the rituals anywhere in this area.
Priest, we have
booked an AC room for you.
-Okay.
-If you don't come on time…
Who is continuously talking
in the background?
More than your voice,
I can hear that noise.
I told you, right, that guy who took me
around everywhere. It's him.
I met him at the wedding.
To be honest,
I am literally stuck with him.
Who is he?
That's what I told you, Hema,
I don't know.
But he seems to know me well.
He knows everything.
He's unbearably affectionate.
Okay, can't you ask someone?
How can I?
He's stuck to me like a magnet.
With him around, how can I ask?
Tell him directly that
you don't know him.
If he comes to know that I don't
know him, he won't be able to digest it.
If he comes to know that I pretended
to know him, that'll be it!
And you want me to go
and tell him now… forget it.
I've managed so far.
I will leave now.
It's only till then.
I'll maintain the same act.
Hey, that's wrong.
You shouldn't cheat like this.
If he finds out later he will
feel really bad. You understand?
Sorry, I overheard the last part.
You said you're going
to maintain something. What is that?
-No, nothing…
-Who is on the line? Sister?
Let me talk to her.
No, she doesn't know you.
Why? Haven't you told her?
It's alright. I'll tell her.
She may get angry,
that I am with you but I didn't talk.
-It's getting late.
-Keep quiet, Athaan.
You address her as "baby"?
You used to call your Sivan temple's
elephant also "baby," right?
Sister, how are you? Are you fine?
You don't know me.
You've never met me.
It's me who took good care
of your husband at the wedding.
Get all the details about
me later from Athaan.
-Oh.
-I've finished talking. Now, you speak.
Just simply ask me if I am doing fine.
Are you doing fine?
I am like a brother to you.
I am doing great, as always!
Athaan is also doing fine.
He had his dinner.
He'll reach for the morning coffee.
You could've also come.
I am happy that you at least sent him.
It's getting late,
and Athaan will get angry.
I have to go drop him
at the bus stand.
The rest we will talk
about in person, okay? Bye.
Bye!
She speaks so slowly.
You talk to her.
Hello.
Hey! Who is this?
You're asking me!
Did you ask him for his name?
No.
You should have asked him.
Okay, I'll talk later.
Why are you laughing?
Eat.
Sokku uncle, see you.
Take care of your health.
What is this, uncle?
Because of them,
you've forgotten your hometown,
distanced yourselves
from all the relations…
Even this uncle…
Okay, don't cry, don't cry.
Okay, son,
-have you taken everything?
-Yes.
-Have a safe journey.
Inform me once you reach.
Okay.
Hey, is it not enough that I cried,
why are you also crying?
He's come now isn't it, so he
will come more often hereafter.
Why are you telling me that?
Tell him.
Is he standing ten miles away?
He's listening
to everything you're saying.
He will definitely come, have faith.
Only you're saying that
-he's not opening his mouth.
-Trust me. He will come.
Take him and go.
See you, uncle.
Take care.
Go, drop him safely.
Don't cry.
O' homeland!
What did you wait for to say?
All for my sake?
Like a magic hand
You held me
You charmed me
Why? O' why?
O' why did I land here?
Within my soul arises a question
In my turbulent heart!
The time of reluctant parting
Memories of an
Unbearably soothing burden
O' my homeland
Who am I?
Here…
-Hey, what happened?
-Angu uncle's tea?
COUNTRY COW MILK
COUNTRY SUGAR TEA
Why now? It's getting late.
We have enough time, Athaan.
This tea is made out of native-breed milk,
with jaggery powder.
You won't get it in Madras.
Let's not…
Uncle, two special teas.
The sheer joy of drinking tea
after a good meal is something else!
Drink, Athaan!
It will be a sin if you don't drink!
Drink and tell me how it is.
-Superb! It's very nice.
-Isn't it?
Drink fast, let's leave.
We will miss the bus.
I have to go to work tomorrow.
I'll take care of it, Athaan.
They won't dare to move
the bus without asking me!
Just a second,
I'll ask him and come.
Sir, the bus to Chennai?
Chennai bus?
You're coming now and inquiring.
The last bus left 15 minutes ago.
Sir, please call and ask them to stop
the bus. Athaan has to leave tonight.
Can we stop the bus
for just one person?
Sir, just please find out
where the bus is,
I will chase it and catch up with it.
-Just ask him to drive slowly.
-On this scooter?
In five minutes,
the bus will hit the highway.
After that, even if you ride
on a Yamaha RX 100
at full speed, you won't catch up.
Sir, what other option is there?
Tell me, sir.
There's only one option.
Sleep, and in the morning take
the 07:30 a.m. bus to Thanjavur.
And from there board
the Volvo luxury bus at 08:00 a.m.
It'll drop you off at Guindy
easily between 02:00 to 02:30 p.m.
Talk only if there is
another way to go,
otherwise don't say anything.
No, right?
I've told them I'll be there at the office
for something important.
What shall I tell them now?
That I missed the bus.
They will laugh at me.
Athaan, don't get tensed.
If you get tense,
I won't get any ideas.
You don't have to give any idea.
He just told everything clearly.
Let's figure out what has to be done now.
Sir.
Sir, is there a lodge
anywhere close by?
Lodge?
Sir?
Do you know any lodge?
Hey, if you know, say you do,
or if you don't, say you don't,
or at least find out
from someone and tell me.
Okay, I'll find out myself.
Why lodge, Athaan?
My house is there,
-you can sleep and leave in the morning.
-I don't want all that.
Can you take me to a lodge now or not?
I can't, Athaan.
Okay, I'll figure it out myself.
Athaan… Athaan…
Athaan, do you think this is Madras?
There are just two lodges
near the bus stand.
There will be cockroaches in
the toilet and bed bugs on the mattress.
It will be pathetic, Athaan.
And you're saying you want to go there.
For the cleanliness you seek,
you won't even go
inside with your slippers.
Let there be any insect,
I'll handle it.
Athaan, please listen to me.
Okay, come, I'll take you.
Come, Athaan.
Did I ask you for that
native-breed milk tea?
Did I?
PANDIAN LODGE
PRABHU LODGE
There is one on this side and,
another on this side.
Go take a look.
I can manage from here.
You leave.
Anyway, thanks.
You didn't leave?
Both are okay…
But no…
Just a little further ahead,
there’s another lodge.
But it won’t be as clean as these two.
Shall we go?
Shall we go home?
Hold me tightly, Athaan!
You can stop the scooter and then talk.
Just a minute, Athaan.
Hello! It's me.
Now listen carefully.
Thanks, Athaan.
I am bringing Arul Athaan home.
What do you mean by who?
Arul Athaan, Nambi uncle…
Yes, it's him… yes!
He's going to stay
with us tonight.
Get everything ready accordingly, okay?
Hey… Have you eaten?
She hung up.
Athaan.
If I say something, you shouldn't
remove your slippers and hit me.
I don't know.
Say it and find out.
It's okay, I'll say it.
I am so happy you didn't go to Madras.
I am not.
That I know.
Guess why I am happy?
That also I don't know.
Because you're going
to stay in my house!
Big deal, Athaan!
What's going to happen
if you don't go to work for a day?
You have come all the way.
Why don't you just
spend a day relaxing,
attend your sister's wedding
and then go?
Instead, you're always
in a hurry to leave.
Hey, have you boarded the bus?
I called to tell you about that.
Why? What happened?
I missed the bus.
Hey… What happened?
I'll tell you that later.
For now, I've missed the bus. That's all.
Just do me a favor.
Call my office tomorrow and
inform them that I am sick.
Okay, what are you going to do now?
I'll stay here tonight
and leave in the morning.
Where are you staying?
Teacher!
Come, Athaan.
Athaan has arrived.
Come fast, come.
Welcome, brother!
This is our house, Athaan.
First, get water.
BHARATHIAR
KAVIMANI DESIGAVINAYAGAM PILLAI
BIRSA MUNDA
P. KAKKAN
Athaan, why did you stop here?
I was just taking a look.
They will always be here,
they won't go anywhere.
Come, let's go inside.
Tell me what you want to eat,
-she will get it ready immediately.
-No.
Shall I ask her to make coffee or tea?
We already had it, right?
Will you have something light?
Oh, no! I am full after eating
at the reception.
When I come next time,
I'll come and have a meal.
It's okay, brother.
Ask for anything you want.
Don't hesitate.
I am feeling sweaty, can you
tell me where the bathroom is?
You want to have a bath?
You can bathe in the bathroom
or shall we go to the river?
To the river?
At this hour?
Did you believe it?
I was just joking.
-Hot water or cold water?
-Cold.
Come… come… I will show you
the bathroom and I will also take a bath.
There is a new "Margo"
soap inside, Athaan.
Outside near the mirror, you'll find the
comb, oil, and powder.
You quickly take a bath, I will also go
swiftly and take a bath in the backyard.
Why are you taking the bag?
Are you going to bathe it or what?
Hey! My towel and clothes are inside.
Why? Won't I have a towel?
Won't we give it, if you ask?
If it gets wet,
it won't dry by morning, Athaan!
Are you going to keep a wet
towel inside the bag and go?
It will stink.
I have a new Turkey towel,
you start having your bath.
Before you remove your clothes,
I'll hang the towel on the wall.
Okay.
Can you go? I have to bathe.
Shall we see who finishes bathing first?
-Shall we see?
-Come on! Let's see!
Hey!
Athaan,
do you drink beer?
Beer? No, I don't want it right now.
So, you drink.
No… but I really don't want it right now.
Did I ask whether
you want it or not?
I only asked
whether you drink.
Answer only the question, okay?
Okay, sir, I drink, sir!
Good, let that fear be.
Two for me and two
for you, is that okay?
No, one is enough for me.
Again you're answering
out of the syllabus.
Wait, let me peep in,
only then you will cave.
Hey! No…
Let us both have two beers each.
Okay, I am going
to finish my bath.
I think you will lose the competition.
Brother.
Brother,
after your bath, he asked
you to go near the well.
Sorry, I never asked for all of this…
No problem, brother.
He also drinks occasionally.
Poor soul, he's come up the hard way.
So I just let him be happy.
Not just that…
He likes you a lot.
This day, that you
have come and stayed,
he will talk about it through the year
with everyone he meets.
Just wait and watch.
Even the lizard is approving!
He normally talks a lot,
but when he drinks, don't ask!
He talks a lot more.
For ten questions you have one answer.
You both are a good match.
Even then, please adjust.
That's okay.
What's wrong with that?
It's late, please sleep.
Till he comes, I won't be able to sleep.
I will just be lying down.
I am used to that.
The garden is beautiful.
You said it was beer,
and you have a pot. Is it toddy?
It's beer… beer only, Athaan.
I don't like Chilled beer
from the fridge,
pot beer is better.
Drink and see. It will be fine.
Sit down.
Athaan, I am just pouring a little,
the remaining is inside.
Which song is this, Athaan?
Song?
Yes, what you just sang.
Did I sing?
Lovely song, Athaan,
sing it once more. I'll know then.
Which song?
What is this, Athaan?
Damn!
If I don't find out what that
song was, my head will burst.
It's somewhere here,
it's not coming out now.
It will come. Here, cheers!
Cheers!
You wouldn't have expected, right, Athaan?
After so many years… with me.
Gazing at the sky
and blissfully drinking beer.
By now you would be traveling
past our town with a serious face.
Yes,
thanks.
Come on, Athaan!
My luck was so good,
that you had to come and stay here.
Have some karasev, Athaan.
Nandini made it.
It's nice.
Bhuvana?
If you feel like talking,
just talk, Athaan.
I told her something
and kind of confused her.
There won't be any problem.
Even if someone gets
caught it will be me.
You're safe!
What did you say?
Tell me.
Only then I can manage, when she calls.
That's what even
I can't understand.
I just blabbered whatever
came to my mouth.
By the time Bhuvana makes sense of it,
the wedding will be over.
When did you have
this conversation?
When you dropped the mug
while taking a bath.
It's truly a beautiful house.
Is this the house
where you grew up?
-This?
-Yes…
No, Athaan.
In the house where I grew up,
if we stretch and sleep,
our hands and legs will hit the wall.
It's very small.
This is my father-in-law's house.
It was built by his grandfather.
A similar story to yours.
My wife was born
with two siblings.
One elder sister,
and one elder brother,
including her there were three of them.
After my father-in-law died, there
were fights to divide the wealth.
They both were arguing,
over what belonged to whom.
My wife was like,
"This is the house where my parents
lived, and this is where we grew up,
we shouldn't sell it."
She was sitting in one corner
and crying quietly.
I felt really bad. I thought about it.
I inquired about
the market rate of the house.
I somehow arranged for the funds
and settled the two of them.
Then registered the house in her name.
Now this is her house.
Only after coming here,
many good things happened, Athaan.
She conceived recently.
Oh! Congratulations.
All the other times
were miscarriages.
It's just been three months.
Doctor has asked us to be very careful.
That's why I didn't bring her
to the reception.
It's a very lucky house, Athaan.
If I had known,
I would've wished her, when I saw her.
I didn't notice.
So what, Athaan?
It's just been three months.
You can't make out.
It's just a small bump.
Your hip sways
Your eyes search for a place
The sight of your
Feminine form makes me shy
Happiness burdens me
What, my darling?
-Thinking about you
-My body shines
And it pains
To express that
It pierces my heart
Even in heaven
My Lord is testing me
-Your body
-Overflows with passion
Glad that I stay in tune with it
-This deer…
That man killed it!
With this, one bottle is over, Athaan.
The shirt you were wearing
at the wedding was superb.
For your complexion,
you looked like a hero.
Bhuvana bought it for me.
I know, I know.
It was her choice.
But it was me
who sent you the shirt.
Is that so?
The shirt you were wearing
was also very nice.
Lies!
Don't just say it,
because I said it.
Will anyone lie after drinking?
It really was nice.
Actually, yes!
Right from when I was a youngster,
I had a thing for new shirts.
That smell…
The thing is, till I started earning,
I never wore new shirts.
Someone would give me some old ones,
I used to wear them.
And we never had
slippers as well,
so our relatives
never accepted us.
They used to live nearby,
but they hardly gave a damn about us.
They wouldn't even allow us
to play with their kids.
By any chance, if they saw
my father on the road,
they would just ignore him.
At that age,
it really used to hurt me.
We can't blame anyone, Athaan.
Everyone is nice,
in some way or the other.
Money is the root cause
of all the trouble.
But your father was
never like that, Athaan.
I used to like him a lot
from when I was little.
I was such a small kid,
he used to address
me with respect.
Not just him, even your mother,
your Chinna uncle,
Sokku uncle, Bhuvana,
your elder brother, and you,
you were all exactly the same,
you all never gave importance to money.
You gave importance
to their character.
Only after seeing all of you,
I yearned for everyone.
What?
What is it?
Wait, I am coming.
Athaan, get up.
I'll introduce you to someone.
Hey! He's tied firmly, right?
A double rope has
been used, Athaan.
But this is nothing for him,
if he decides to,
he will just unleash himself!
It's all fine, come on.
Let's not go any closer.
His glare doesn't seem normal.
That's not an issue, Athaan.
I am here, right? Just come.
Dhoni baby!
You called out for Daddy?
It's stunning.
What breed is the bull?
-This one?
-Yes…
Kangayam, Athaan.
He only looks scary, Athaan.
He's an affectionate fellow.
My baby boy!
In the cattle fair at Thiruvonam,
he had no buyers
as he was all skin and bones.
I felt really bad,
so I made the decision
and loaded him onto
the mini truck and brought him.
In the beginning,
he used to be weak.
He won't even eat properly.
I had to literally feed
him with my hands.
Only after he grew up,
we realized who he really was!
With those small horns of his,
he was charging at everyone he saw.
I was stunned.
I got Sokku uncle and showed him.
He saw him
and wanted to know where I got him.
His jaw dropped!
I felt a small sense
of pride within me.
I felt proud as a calf parent.
Then we let our boy grow for a year,
he himself trained him.
He also got involved
and played well.
I only panicked cause
he was a sheltered boy,
and he could get
hurt playing rough.
-Hey, go!
-I would get scared
and yelled at as well.
Yes, come on!
Look at how you leaped!
Is it enough to only keep an eye on those
who are coming from the front?
More than twenty people will come and
pounce on you from all four directions.
You should keep
an eye on all sides.
Otherwise, you will lose the game.
Shall we play again?
Will you play well?
Okay, baby!
Once the training ended,
his young, tender body had vanished.
He was like the "Nandhi"
statue at The Thanjavur temple.
He looked really solid,
so I thought why not let him
into the arena?
The next year…
I think it was 2012.
There were rumors
that the world was going to end.
During the harvest festival that year,
we put him in a van
and took him to Madurai.
It was his first Jallikattu
at the age of three, Athaan.
My first time, too.
The Jallikattu at Avaniyapuram.
Deafening noise everywhere.
Couldn't even hear
what the person next to you was saying.
They were waving their
hands and saying something.
I unleashed him at the entrance.
That's all I know.
He leaped like a tiger,
arousing the dust!
Not allowing anyone
to come near him!
Not an iota of fear.
The guys shuddered.
And those who did manage to leap
on him, he easily shoved them aside.
He literally tossed one guy up,
making him fly mid-air,
like our "Thala" Dhoni.
That's how he got
the name Dhoni!
He won, Athaan!
His first Jallikattu!
The prize was a Godrej cupboard.
They announced his name over the mike,
and when they announced my
name as the owner of the bull,
I was overflowing with pride.
I had goosebumps!
Look, even now!
The next day, the Jallikattu
was at Alanganallur.
After that, Siravayal.
That year starting from
January till April,
we didn't miss a single game.
We went head-on
and won all of them.
He won!
An ever silver vessel,
plastic chair,
steel cot, silver coin,
and Nokia phone,
we had no place
to keep all that we won.
But on the way to Palamedu,
our boy created a
scene and we were late.
That's the only one we missed.
Because of that,
for the next entire year,
he trained vigorously.
When we decided to go to the game
at Palamedu in 2013
during the harvest festival,
Sokku uncle couldn't contain
his excitement and came along,
to add to this, my wife came as well!
Our boy's entry…
the announcement was electrifying!
So far at the Jallikattu,
you would have witnessed,
the black bull, the white bull,
and the red bull, charging in!
But have you seen a
rocket coming? A rocket!
The one that's going
to come at rocket's speed is
the one and only
Needamangalam's Dhoni!
He hasn't been caught
in a single game, so far!
He's not just a bull,
he's a maneless lion!
Welcome! Welcome! Welcome!
Here comes the brave Tamil woman!
Our hero's salute to her!
Congratulations!
I request all of you
to clap and encourage her!
Those guys who were
ready in the arena
were hell-bent
on catching him.
I really thought this year
Dhoni would lose the game!
Dodge! Dodge!
Superb! Superb!
What a Spectacle!
Stunning is the word!
If allowed, looks like he can
play all night without giving up!
No one's able to touch the bull!
He's a running riot! He's on fire!
The great Dhoni gets
a glorious victory…
Superb!
We need to continue
the competition,
please take him
and leave, sister.
I applaud her courage and on behalf
of the Palamedu Jallikattu…
One Nokia phone with a dual sim
is the prize for your courage, sister!
Here. Catch!
It's her.
Hello!
My dear, haven't you slept yet?
What?
You've gone to the backyard, isn't it?
No, who said so?
Who needs to tell me?
I can hear you
speaking from there.
No, dear.
You used to say something,
what was that?
Oh, yes, echo.
It's echoing here, that's the sound.
Athaan and I are seated near
the well and are quietly drinking.
I am not a child to be fooled.
So don't even try it.
I can clearly hear
your son's bell sound.
Alright!
You give the phone to my brother,
I'll talk to him.
Okay, I'll give it,
but you should talk only in English.
No, I won't.
Aren't you teaching in English at school?
Then why fuss?
You speak in English,
I want to see, whose English is better.
Not necessary.
Then I won't give the phone.
Okay, give it. I'll talk.
Okay, I've turned on
the speaker mode. Talk.
-Hello, brother.
-Hello, tell me.
-You also talk in English.
-Okay.
Brother, my husband
never listens to me.
I've told him several times not to go
to the backyard during the nighttime.
But he never obeys.
It is not safe, brother.
It's okay, sister. Don't worry.
I'll manage.
No, brother.
There are a lot of poisonous insects
which you cannot see in the night.
Also, there is a cobra snake.
Ayo!
It just gave birth
to four or five young ones.
Ayayo!
Ayo… that's Tamil,
so 100 rupees fine,
-and Ayayo is also Tamil so 300 rupees.
-Okay!
Now you tell me
whether it is safe, brother?
No… no… no…
-Is there a snake here?
-Yes, Athaan.
Cobra. The good snake!
It just gave birth. Four to five
young ones must be around here.
You're crazy. Why didn't you
tell me there are snakes here?
What is this, Athaan?
You look like a coconut tree,
why are you scared of snakes?
I'm here, right?
Come, hold my hand.
Brother, be careful.
Sometimes the snake will be on the
path. Don't step on them by mistake.
Stop it, sister.
Don't scare me even more.
Nothing is visible in the dark.
Did you notice? In fear, Athaan
is spontaneously talking in Tamil.
Come on!
It won't come here, Athaan.
You're not frightened,
so you're saying that.
People raise goats
and cows at home.
How can you raise a snake?
Oh, gosh! I am not raising it, Athaan.
Just like how my wife and I live
in this house, it also lives here.
In fact, it's a senior!
It's been here for many years.
-Senior?
-Yes.
You're too much.
Okay, forget that.
When you were in school,
you had a Raleigh bicycle,
do you remember?
After that, you bought a
blue color TVS Champ.
Do you know what happened
to that cycle after that?
I don't even remember what
happened to the TVS Champ.
Okay, see if you remember this.
It had an Undertaker sticker
on its mudguard at the back.
Correct?
Yes.
I had saved up money
over a period of time and,
bought it at the Amudha fancy store.
WWF. Undertaker!
After that issue,
you left town, right?
You took every
single thing from the house.
I don't know what you
thought about the cycle,
but in spite of your situation then…
"Give this cycle
to someone who needs it…"
Was apparently what
you said to your father,
and he told my father,
and my father told me.
Did you say that?
Yeah, where to take it and go?
I had already ridden it
for around seven to eight years.
It was old then, itself.
For me who was playing around
with the palm fruit toy cycle,
how would it matter,
if it's old or new?
The minute I knew
the cycle was coming,
I didn't sleep the whole night.
I was only thinking about it.
The next day morning, I wanted to go
with my dad to pick up the cycle.
I was being stubborn about it.
But he was like,
"No, you go to school.
I'll pick up the cycle at Thanjavur,
and get it oiled and checked."
And he ditched me.
The whole day at school, I couldn't
even concentrate on one subject.
How big the cycle will be?
What color the cycle will be?
Will I be able to reach its height?
I was imagining it all day.
SRI VENKATESWARA KINDERGARTEN
NEEDAMANGALAM 614404
Once all of you left, my father
swept and washed your house.
He locked it and went and threw
the keys on the faces of those morons!
Then gave the cycle
a complete makeover.
He loaded it on top of
the bus and brought it.
-It came and reached you, right?
-Yes.
I had no clue about it.
That's the beauty.
There's another
thing you don't know.
Listen, I'll tell you.
He was riding the cycle
from the bus stop.
He started ringing the bell
from the end of the street.
The minute I heard
the bell sound I ran from home.
I was running behind
the cycle, clapping!
Dad,
-is this our new cycle?
-Yes, my son!
He took me for a ride, Athaan.
I was so happy!
I was screaming in joy
at the top of my voice!
My mom was laughing.
Then he took my brother
and mum along for a round.
Four of us had never had
so much fun even on festivals.
After that, I only slept
and woke up near the cycle.
For a few days, I was pushing it
and running along with it on the street.
After that, I pushed it
by balancing one foot on the ground.
And slowly I started
monkey pedaling!
It was a big deal back then!
Monkey pedaling
to the nearby shop,
going to the market,
going to play…
A neighbor saw me
monkey pedaling for weeks
and offered to teach me
how to ride the cycle properly.
I was so scared.
I refused to sit on the seat.
"I'll hold it, you won't fall," he said
and pushed it.
Since I knew he was holding it,
I boldly rode it for a while.
I suddenly realized his absence,
so I turned back.
He was missing.
Seemed like he had
stopped following a while ago.
I froze in fear!
My hand was too small
to press the brake.
I thought of stopping it, at least
by balancing it with my legs,
but I couldn't reach it.
By the time I could figure out
what to do, I had crossed my street.
Thank God! There was a heap
of river sand brought in for construction.
I rammed straight into it.
At full speed, I went
and hit the bricks.
Look here,
it ripped through.
Even then,
I was only worried about
what happened to the cycle.
People who were around lifted me,
gave me buttermilk,
made me sit for a while,
and then sent me on my way.
But, that's the day I learned
to ride the cycle, Athaan!
After that, I was just
obsessed with the cycle!
Riding it, wiping it, oiling it…
I always kept it sparkling clean.
I used to take it
to school on weekdays.
And my father used to
take it on the weekends
to sell saris,
from street to street.
My father made a
good income doing that.
With that, he admitted
my brother and me to a good school.
It was slightly far from home.
They sent us because of the cycle.
Otherwise, we would have had to go by bus
and where was the money for that.
On the first day,
he asked me, "Hey! Will you take
your brother safely and bring him back?"
We went to school
and returned safely that evening.
From that day,
I don't know what my dad thought,
he never questioned me
about anything, Athaan.
He won't even call me by my name.
He'll be like, "Has the elder one come?
Has the elder one eaten?"
He started having immense belief in me.
I wasn't that extraordinary, Athaan.
It seems he used to tell my mom often,
"Don't worry,
no matter what the problem is,
the elder one will take care."
That cycle…
in a way changed everything, Athaan!
What my father earned,
my education,
my brother going to college,
in fact, even for my wedding,
I arrived in that cycle!
If your cycle hadn't been there,
my life would have
been very different.
Not like this!
I didn't say that
thinking so much good would happen.
I don't know what you
thought while giving it,
and what your father thought
while giving it to us,
but every Ayudha puja,
when we worship our tools,
I pray to that cycle, as God!
-What is this…
-Thanks, Athaan!
Why now…
You know, why I told you all this now?
Turn around!
Turn and look!
Your cycle is right here.
Come.
It's your cycle, Athaan.
Take a look.
It's just the same.
Nothing has changed.
Changed? I haven't allowed it to change!
Is this just a cycle?
They said it's old, you have
to change this and that…
I told them it wasn't necessary.
I strictly told them that it
had to stay this way forever.
I just had to change the chain,
ball bearing, and the paint.
There was no choice.
Is it in running condition?
Of course!
I never expected this.
After this, two beers
won't be enough!
What are you saying, Athaan?
I meant it casually.
Tell me if you want to drink.
Gentleman, at this hour,
where will you buy beer?
Hello, sir!
-Where are you?
-Where?
-In Needamangalam.
-So?
With whom?
With me!
You don't know who I am.
-Kanagarasu?
-Yes?
-Are you asleep?
-Yes… yes…
Okay, wake up.
-Hey!
-What?
An urgent requirement.
Like in the times of war.
I need four strong beers.
If possible, chilled.
No, not "if possible,"
it has to be chilled,
it's for my Athaan.
Take the money from
the shop in the morning.
I'll check and tell you.
-Will you?
-Yes!
Okay, I'll hold.
It's available.
-It's available?
-Yes!
-It's chilled?
Superb, brother!
-Superb!
-Where to bring it?
Where to bring it…
Athaan, do you want to continue
the next round here
or shall we go to the dam?
Dam…
-Hey, brother! Da…
-Dam.
Yes, there only.
-Hey! In the po--
-Pot…
-Two--
-Two mugs…
He hung up.
How's that?
Let's leave, the beer
won't remain chill for long.
Shall we go on the cycle?
Are they biting you?
All freshwater fingerlings.
Just dip your legs,
it will be relaxing.
He has already poured
and kept it.
Athaan.
Whenever I see the moon growing,
it reminds me of my
child growing in the womb.
Guess, what name
I've decided on?
How will I know?
You're the one who will know,
but you won't be able to guess.
Yeah, right! Then, how?
I don't even know
if it's a boy or a girl.
Should I guess two names?
Not two names and all,
just one.
Whether it's a boy or a girl,
it's the same name.
That's the clue.
-Try guessing now!
-Even if it's a boy,
or if it's a girl?
Thangam.
No!
Madhu.
Fail!
You want to try once more?
Shall I say it?
I don't know. Go ahead.
Arulmozhi.
How is it?
It's nice.
Athaan,
from the time you came,
I have been noticing,
that if I don't talk for a while,
you get buried in your thoughts.
Your face has turned pale all of a sudden.
What is it?
Thinking about the old house?
It's been 20 years
and you're still thinking about it.
Those days I used to be so happy
to get back home from school.
I like that house a lot.
After I came home,
I wouldn't go straight inside.
I'd hang my bag on the gate.
Then climb and sit on the wall,
looking at all the passers-by.
The boys used to draw stumps
on our wall to play cricket.
I never played much then.
I used to sit on the wall
and just be an umpire!
Hey, throw it like this.
In the evening, my mother
used to keep a tumbler
of milk on the wall
and tap my shoulder.
When you dip
the "Milk Bikis" biscuit in it…
You won't notice time flying by.
In our house, including my grandparents,
there were just six of us.
But there would always be
around 15 to 20 people at home.
I remember, Athaan.
The house extended from
one street into the next.
From the entrance to the backyard,
you used to conduct running races.
Yes.
What a big house!
Uncle has built it
just like his big heart.
The house was built
by my great-grandfather.
Oh!
My grandfather, my father,
uncle, brother,
and me,
all of us were born in that house.
I've never seen my great-grandfather.
He died before I was born.
I don't even have a photograph.
But I know his name.
Sivapadha Sekaran.
For me,
that house is my great-grandfather.
I like that house a lot, man.
There's not a spot in the house
where my feet haven't touched.
My wish was to live
in that house till I die.
But look at my fate,
they snatched it away
from me before that.
The problem is,
I am not able to forget that.
Then how will my face look?
What is there for me to laugh about?
Should I laugh at myself?
More than anyone,
you understand everything I say
and don't say,
you don't console me.
No, Athaan…
How can I… You…
-What I meant was…
-For you…
Well, what that cycle means to you,
is exactly what the house means to me.
Now, talk.
Talk.
Oh, god! I am not saying anything.
Okay, don't go wandering here and there.
Just sit here and drink your beer.
I'll take a piss and come.
Hey!
Why? Haven't I had beer?
Won't I want to pee?
Okay, come.
A…
B…
Silly girl!
DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES
Athaan,
I wore your slippers by mistake.
I know. So what?
It is fluffy.
It is very soft.
I can't even feel it
on my feet, Athaan.
Athaan, stop… stop!
What happened?
I got it.
Who I am after all!
The cloud that travels through the sky
Who is it searching for?
The fragrant flower's soulful music
Who does it sing about?
Feelings expressed through music
Won't they go reach
Our kith and kin
And then let the special day
Of togetherness unfold
And let joy rule
They are like blooming evening flowers
They are the new wildflowers
The summer's cool breeze
The cool breeze that sings
You sing well.
-I dance well too, Athaan.
-Wow, me too!
I can do the steps
of actor Anand Babu really well.
Hold this!
-Micheal Jackson, moonwalk!
-Hey! Hey!
Hey! Superb!
WELCOME
Where are you coming from
at this hour?
Auntie, from the temple!
You're roaming around,
leaving a pregnant woman at home!
Athaan, are you happy?
Very happy!
Are you happy?
Double happy!
It feels sweet, like drinking water
after eating a gooseberry.
-Athaan?
-Yes?
Can I ask you something?
Should we leave the cycle outside?
Yes.
Okay.
Ask me.
You said you wanted
to ask something.
I forgot.
Athaan, there are steps…
Hey, watch out.
Look, just for you!
Sleep on this jute bed and see.
You will sleep so well.
I remembered…
I remembered.
Tell me, before you forget.
Let me first be safe.
Athaan,
you definitely won't like it.
Nevertheless,
since I have the right to, I'll ask.
For my sake…
For my sake,
forgive those four people, Athaan.
For your good heart, if you
curse them even a little bit,
something really bad will
happen to them, Athaan.
Let's not do that, Athaan.
Okay,
I've forgiven them.
Feels like you're just saying
for the sake of it.
I am asking you seriously,
and you're mocking me.
I swear, I've forgiven them.
Really?
I promise.
Superb, Athaan! My Athaan!
Because of us, nothing bad
should happen to anyone.
Let them do what they want.
How are you like this?
Even my wife asks me the same thing.
Just stay this way. Don't change.
You lie down, Athaan.
I won't get sleep now.
I'll wake you up on time.
I'll sit here, Athaan.
Athaan, before you go,
bless us, so that little Arulmozhi
is born healthy.
Okay.
Athaan,
I've noticed
from the time you came,
you never called me by my name.
You're talking to me as though
you're talking to a stranger, Athaan.
Tomorrow morning,
call all three of us by our names.
Bless us and then leave, Athaan.
Okay?
-He slept?
-Yes.
When did you come, brother?
Just now.
Aren't you sleeping, brother?
I am feeling sleepy,
but I am not able to sleep.
Please go and sleep.
Are you hungry, brother?
You want to eat anything?
No, I don't want anything.
Did he tell you what we're
going to name the child, brother?
Yes, he told me.
It's my name.
You go and sleep.
Okay, brother.
If you need anything, call me.
Yes.
Who?
Who is he?
Kith or kin
Wonder who he is?
Affection
Unconditional affection, he giveth!
Wonder who he is?
The tender, infinite, pure affection
I lost!
From the bond
I always yearned for
I drift away
Who?
Who is he?
Kith or kin
Wonder who he is?
Unexpectedly
Overflowing with a mother's love!
Who is he?
The bane is the boon
The swirl of life that haunts me
A coward's legs today
Fall, laden with the truth
I am a stagnated pool of water
Your shower of boundless mercy is enough
My heart, a sinner
Set's me ablaze!
Without dissolving in the rain!
The mountain stands forever tall
The sky never falls
With the raindrop!
I fall as a lie and lose
In front of the truth
That you embody
This unparalleled affection
When will I witness?
-Who?
-Who is he?
-Kith or kin
-Wonder who he is?
-Unexpectedly
-Overflowing with a mother's love!
-Who is he?
-Who?
-Kith or kin
-Wonder who he is?
-Unexpectedly
-Overflowing with a mother's love!
-Who is he?
HAIL LORD SHIVA
Brother.
Come, leave your slippers here,
buy some flowers and go.
Why, brother?
After coming this close,
you're going back
without going inside the temple?
Brother, it's okay
if you don't buy flowers,
but just go inside,
and offer your prayers.
It's an auspicious day today.
I haven't had a bath.
So what!
You're going to see our God, after all.
Why do you need
cleanliness for that?
God won't get angry, you go!
Where is the bus stand?
Where do you have to go?
The bus that goes to Thiruvarur,
will not pass from here.
It will come up to Anna's statue
and then take a turn.
I need to go to Madras.
Actually, any place is fine,
I just need to leave from here.
Every ten minutes, there is a bus
to Thanjavur. It will stop here.
-But…
-Thanjavur works.
Can you do me a favor?
When you go inside the temple,
just take a few flowers and…
You want me to do an offering?
Yes.
In whose name?
I don't know the name.
Do it in the name of God.
Brother,
till the bus comes,
why don't you sit here?
It's alright.
Will you have tea, brother?
-No.
-Why not?
The bus will come.
So what?
You can go on the next bus.
I haven't brushed my teeth.
So you haven't
brushed your teeth.
Without even brushing your teeth,
or taking a bath,
why are you in a hurry
to go to Madras?
Hey!
When did you come?
You never called.
What happened to you, Arul?
You don't seem alright
ever since you came back.
Did something happen there?
What happened to you, tell me?
Hema, I told you I met
someone there, right?
Yes.
He was so affectionate towards me.
Not just me, he's very
affectionate with everyone.
He remembers incidents that
happened so many years ago.
He worships the cycle that I gave
him unknowingly many years ago.
He takes care of his bull
like his own child.
He talks to everything…
The fish in the sea,
the birds on the tree.
He says he's going to name
his child after me.
But I don't know his name.
You call and talk to him, Arul.
How can I even do that, Hema?
He's right up here.
But I saw him as a nuisance.
He asked me for my mobile number.
I purposely gave him the wrong number.
I didn't even ask for his name.
I pretended like I knew him.
Actually, he's up there,
I am down here.
I am feeling ashamed
to even call and apologize to him.
Arul.
Stretch.
Okay, uncle.
Not at all, uncle.
This itself is a huge favor.
Uncle, six months is
the maximum time I'll take.
But, I will return it before that.
Okay, uncle.
Thank you.
Thank you, Bye.
All good?
Just wait, this won't be enough.
We need more.
Exactly how much do we need?
We need another 25 lakhs.
How much do you need?
Sir, I need around 25 lakhs.
When do you need it?
Sir, whenever you give it, it's fine.
Okay, as soon as possible.
You will return it, right?
What, sir!
Just say you will return it!
I'll surely return it, sir.
Sorry, in fact, I did not want to ask you.
Actually, you should say sorry
only for not buying a house till now.
I've asked you,
so many times why haven't
you bought a house yet.
Yes, sir.
Then, if not me,
who else will you ask?
Okay, sir! Thank you, sir!
Is this that "nameless" uncle's number?
Why are you digging through that?
Dad, please give me
your phone for a little while.
Why?
I want to call my friend.
Here.
Do you know the passcode?
I know all that.
Brat!
Dad, there's a call!
Who is it?
I don't know, talk!
Hello.
Live prosperously!
Ezhil garments, tell me.
Talk!
Hello, I am Arul, from Madras.
Athaan!
How are you, Athaan?
Just five minutes ago,
I was talking about you.
You'll live for 95 years!
Your watch, right?
You left it in the bathroom.
I've kept it safely.
I have also kept
your slippers safely in a bag.
What is this, Athaan? You just left
in anger, without even telling us.
It's my Fault. I told you
to sleep but I slept off!
As soon as I woke up, I called you.
Someone else answered the call.
I tried again,
but the same person answered,
yelled at me, and hung up.
Then I asked Sokku uncle.
He just shut me up, saying,
"Stop troubling him.
Is he a baby?
Won't he know to go back himself?"
I felt that I really troubled you.
Whose number is this, Athaan?
This is my number.
How are you?
Me? I am perfectly fine.
So whose number is that?
That…
I gave you the wrong number.
How can you go wrong
with your own number?
I must have noted it down wrongly
since I was excited about the food.
Actually, I want to ask you something.
Tell me.
I should have asked you
at Needamangalam, itself.
But couldn't.
I thought of asking you after coming here.
But there was an emergency situation,
So, I had to arrange something.
That's why I couldn't call earlier.
Have you made arrangements?
Sokku uncle told me that
you were in need of money,
and you're running
around trying to arrange it.
Have you made arrangements?
Why did he tell you?
I am not talking about that.
Athaan, is everyone fine at home?
No one's in trouble, right?
No, no, everyone's fine.
It's not that kind of an emergency.
We are trying to buy
the house we are currently residing in.
I was busy making
arrangements for that.
Thank god! I got worried
that it was something serious.
To buy a house?
This is good news.
When Sokku uncle told me,
I calculated and checked, Athaan.
I have 15 lakhs in cash ready with me.
Look,
I want to talk to you
about something else.
It's definitely not about the money.
Why? You can't call
and ask me for money?
Then how will I repay for
all that you've done for me?
When you gave us, didn't we take it?
Now when we are giving it,
you should take it!
See,
I have 15 lakhs in cash ready with me.
If we pledge the jewelry
we have in the bank…
Don't pledge the jewelry,
I am telling you I don't even
want the money and you're…
Relax, Athaan, allow me to speak!
Your sister is the one who
suggested we pledge the jewelry.
If we pledge the jewelry in the bank,
we will get around five lakhs.
For the balance five,
I can ask the chit-fund guys.
If we tell them we require
it for an emergency,
they will immediately give it.
So, five and another five make it 25.
Is 25 enough, Athaan?
Athaan, we can even ask for a loan
from the co-operative society.
Thanks a lot.
But I don't need it. I've already made
arrangements. Now just listen to me.
After telling you all this, if you
still don't take the money from me,
I'll never speak to you again.
Okay, I'll take it.
Now will you allow me to talk?
Okay, tell me.
I…
You…
I don't know where to start.
What, Athaan?
I gave you the wrong phone number.
Wrong number?
I purposely gave
you the wrong number.
Why, Athaan?
I don't know you.
I don't know your name.
I was thinking, "Why should I give
my number to a stranger?"
That's why I gave the wrong one.
Hello!
Can you hear me?
I can hear you, Athaan.
Even now I don't know who you are.
You went on calling me Athaan
with affection and a sense of belonging,
I couldn't tell you…
that… I don't know you.
I just couldn't ask you.
Moreover, you were
with me all the time.
So, I couldn't ask
anyone else as well.
An entire night at your house,
without knowing who you were…
I felt really bad.
Like I had committed a big mistake.
It definitely is…
a big mistake.
I managed to some extent,
but when you said you're going
to name your child after me,
And you said the next
morning I have to call
all three of you by your
names and bless you…
I froze!
I couldn't handle your love,
that's why without
even telling you,
I ran away from the house.
You, really don't know
who I am, Athaan?
I may not know your name,
I may have forgotten
how I am related to you,
but I know who the real you is.
Forget that,
I figured out who I am
only because of you.
This is the truth.
Even now you don't know, Athaan?
I don't know.
Please forgive me.
Don't say all that, Athaan.
Just a minute, just a minute, Athaan.
Hello!
Hey!
Are you crying?
Forget it, it's alright.
I made a huge mistake,
forgive me.
Don't say all that, Athaan.
At least now you
felt like finding out.
Do you really want to?
I feel like hearing it from you.
You might be busy,
let's talk later, Athaan.
There is no work more
important than this.
Please tell me.
Tell me, you have forgiven me.
I'll tell you that,
but you should promise
to come here again and see me.
I promise I'll come, dear.
I'll come tomorrow itself.
Please tell me
you've forgiven me.
Don't say such big words, Athaan.
I might just die.
Just say you've forgiven me.
You too forgive me, Athaan.
Why?
I knew that the bus which
was going to Chennai,
was leaving at 09:00 p.m., Athaan.
Despite that,
if you had left then, I wasn't sure
when you would come again.
I wanted you to see
Bhuvana's wedding
and wished for you
to stay with me for a day.
So what was to be 09:00 p.m.,
I made it 10:00 p.m.
I told you a tiny lie, Athaan.
It wasn't planned, Athaan.
At that moment…
Hey!
You can lie about your phone number,
can't I lie about the bus timing?
Why one set of rules for you
and another set of rules for me?
Now it's fair and square.
I'll also forgive you.
Okay, I will spare you.
Now tell me your name.
Do you remember…
your summer holidays of '94?
Your tenth-grade vacation?
I don't remember anything
much about the past.
But you go on,
I may remember as you narrate.
Okay, I'll come to that later.
First, I'll tell you who I am.
Okay.
I am no big star like
Rajinikanth or Kamal Haasan,
to tell you about myself in one word.
It will be slightly elaborate,
is that okay?
Okay, now just tell me!
Your mother's mother,
who is from Kumbakonam,
was born with three siblings.
Hello!
I am listening.
Make some sounds
of acknowledgment, Athaan.
Only then will I have
the interest to narrate.
So, your late great-grandparents,
Maruthamuthu and Jagadambal,
had four children.
Sivagnanam, Janagam, Gopu,
and Padma. Am I right?
Janagam is your grandmother.
Your mother, your uncle,
and all your aunts were born to her.
Hey, I know all that.
Wow! Not bad!
So, Janagam granny's brother,
Sivagnanam grandpa,
had four children.
Paneerselvam, Angamma,
Banumathy and Vijayalakshmi.
That Angamma is my mother.
Superb.
Now will you tell me your name?
Wait! I've only told
you half of the story.
Now let's start again from the beginning.
Your mother's father,
as in, your grandfather's there, right?
He "was" there.
Is that so?
Okay, your grandfather
was born with six siblings.
One of them was Gurunathar.
That Gurunathar had three kids.
Santhanam, Kanakavalli,
and Loganathan.
That Santhanam is my father.
Okay.
Your granny was the matchmaker
who got them married.
Superb.
My brother and I were born to them.
Now at least you can
tell me your name, right?
It's not like you'll lose anything!
Wait, hang on!
We are almost there,
just a little bit more to go.
Now let's go back to '94.
I can never forget that year
for many reasons, Athaan.
For the first time, we traveled
outside Needamangalam.
For the first time, we had
gotten into an outstation bus.
For the first time, we were
coming to Thanjavur to your house.
All through the journey,
my father advised me,
"You shouldn't shout, nor fight,
nor dig your nose,
nor talk in the village dialect."
He was laying down so many
conditions while coming there.
At that time, you had just finished
your tenth grade and were confused,
about whether to join polytechnic college
or complete your 11th and 12th grade.
But you used to always call
me aside and talk to me.
Wherever you went,
you took me along.
You used to play with
us kids, at our level.
You used to teach
us a lot of new things.
You weren't like this then,
you used to always be cheerful.
You used to talk to everyone so kindly.
I learned that from you, Athaan.
Really?
Was I like that?
I swear on you!
Oh, no! I believe you.
See, finally,
not just about you,
but I have even found out
about myself from you.
You're the one who first
took me to a cinema theater.
At Kumaran Cinema Theater, we saw the
matinee show of Veetla Visheshanga.
Even though you had already
seen it, you took us again.
How I wasn't tall enough and
used to keep adjusting to see the film.
How you got us ice cream
and popcorn during the interval.
The smell of the cinema theater,
I can't forget anything, Athaan!
Even now when I think about it…
But I am not able to figure out
whether I actually remember,
or because you're narrating
I am imagining that I remember.
Okay, listen, this is
the most important part.
There were eight of us, all small kids.
Unable to manage
all of us at home…
They sent us with you to the market.
All of us would hold hands and follow you.
We used to compete amongst ourselves
to hold your hand.
Okay.
To keep us under control you used to
do something till we reached the shop,
do you remember what that was?
No, what was it?
You'd name each one
of us after a vegetable.
And till we reached the shop
we had to keep repeating,
how much of that vegetable
we were going to buy.
Cabbage, one kilo,
-What vegetable are you?
-Potato, two kilos.
The last one?
Small Onion, three kilos.
Green Chili for five rupees.
Ladyfinger, one kilo.
Like this, we would keep
repeating it and walking.
In that group,
Priya was the Green Chili,
and Ganesh was?
Beans!
That's more like it!
You remember now.
Meena's name was Big Onion.
Ranji's name was Small Onion.
Yes, Ramya was Ladyfinger,
and Saravanan was Turkey Berry.
Bhuvana? Balamurali?
Bhuvana was Tomato, no,
Balamurali was Tomato.
Bhuvana…
Shall I tell you?
No, no, don't. I will remember it.
Okay, countdown from one to five.
One…
-Wait.
-Two.
-Bhuvana was…
-Three.
Give me a clue.
You can eat that as a vegetable
and as a fruit.
Capsicum?
Wrong. Four.
Four and one-fourth…
Four and a half…
-Bhuvana…
-Four and three-fourths…
Plantain! Bhuvana was Plantain.
Superb, Athaan!
Oh, man!
Not done yet.
Who was Cabbage?
Wait, I know. Cabbage was…
that person's son…
I forgot his name.
Come on, you're pretty close.
That boy had a lovely name.
He also had two whorls on his head.
His name was Madhi… Madhi!
Madhiyazhagan.
Madhiyazhagan was Cabbage. Yes!
I wonder how he is now.
Nothing to worry about.
He's absolutely fine.
You remember Cabbage,
but you don't remember his
elder brother, Potato, right?
You are so mean, Athaan!
Hey!
Potato!
Hey! Potato!
Is it you?
Finally!
What a tube light you are, Athaan!
Hey, Potato!
That's me! Your Potato.
How are you?
Yeah, right! I am fine.
After talking for so long, now
you're asking me how I am? How silly!
Forgive me, forgive me!
Okay, now tell me my name.
I'll forgive you.
Potato, that's it.
Look at how you are dodging even now!
That's the name you gave me.
I am asking you about
the name my parents gave me.
I won't tell you.
You never made it easy either, right?
Look how you prolonged it!
You can only tell it if you know it!
You remember my brother's name,
but you don’t remember my name, do you?
Who said I don't remember?
It's been a minute since I remembered.
Then behave yourself and tell me my name.
If you don't, I won't give you money.
Then don't.
Did I ask you for it?
You were the one who said you'd give.
Yes, exactly. I will give it to you,
and you have to take it.
That's my share for your house.
How can you refuse it?
Okay, give it.
I'll take it.
I'll take anything
you give me from now on.
That's right! That's my Athaan!
Okay, now tell me my name.
I won't tell you now.
If not now, then when?
Later.
When?
Hey!
I'll tell you!
Hang up, you Potato.
NEEDAMANGALAM
Come, brother.
Do you remember me?
Just do an offering.
In God's name?
Potato!
Hey, Potato!
Open the door.
Hey!
Enough now! I can't take it anymore!
Open the door.
I know you're on the other side
of the door.
Hey! Don't torture me, rascal!
Open the door!
Open the door, Meiyazhagan!
Athaan!